Welcome back to the Yahowah blog here in
the library studio.
It was just a little over an hour
ago that we completed the previous program
on the last word picture regarding the
behavior of our beloved, our king,
chosen one, Messiah,
son of God and savior during his most
deplorable moment.
And I'm going to return to that text.
It's presented in Second Samuel,
eleven and in twelve.
And then we're going to in another
program,
hopefully we'll push this off until
tomorrow.
Perhaps we're going to turn to the fifty
first to Mashal,
which is those retorts to God.
It is with a very heavy heart that
I cover this material.
I know many of you commented on the
last show and I have not had the
opportunity to look at those comments at
this point.
I was actually more motivated for the
solution.
results oriented as a fellow.
And so as I read through this,
I am motivated to find where's the
solution because this is really bad and we
can't leave it like this.
So what I did is I realized there's
only one text in the entirety
of the Towrah, Proph''ets,
and Psalms that would resolve this dilemma
that Dowd was in.
It happens to be my favorite of all
by far.
And I wanted to spend the time between
these programs analyzing the name of the
fellow that delivered it.
And what I found is exactly what I
had been led to conclude.
And I can't wait to share that with
you.
Because from that perspective,
it's an extraordinary revelation.
And it is the resolution to all of
this.
So as I go through this, again,
this is going to be one of at
least three and maybe four programs that
are gut-wrenching.
because we recognize who Dowd is,
that he's the one who fulfilled Pesach,
Matsah, and Bikuwrym.
We wouldn't be here without him.
He would return to Yah.
He would eventually get back up.
But it's going to be a while.
He is going to be down for years
before he restates his and reclaims his
position with God.
For those who may not have an appreciation
as to why I went here,
it is really several fold.
The first is that it's dominant.
It's presented in great detail in Shamuw'el,
listen to God, two Samuel,
eleven and twelve.
And the events that follow and really
thirteen through twenty something are all
a derivative of this so it's pervasive in
the text God didn't turn away from it
and we have never run from anything in
the twenty four years we have done this
we've though picked our battles so that we
turn to them at their proper time and
i think this is now the proper time
after we have burnished those resume and
appropriately so for us to
consider why he is and has been rejected
by so many and why it was so
easy for Christianity to tear him down.
He made that possible,
which I think is the greatest grief of
all to God,
knowing what would happen as a result of
this.
And God chose not to cover it up.
He wanted it revealed.
He revealed it.
And so we're going to deal with it.
other reason is uh of course that in
Judaism and Christianity the excuse for
their replacement messiahs are it's all
based on this event we don't give that
more credibility by presenting the basis
for it but we look like cowards if
we can't deal with it um
we are never gonna run from something.
And ultimately it is the timing that is
so vital to us because when we returned
to the narrative in the garden and we
realized that God caused the fall of man
and then realized the things that God
expressly stated that he was expecting
from us, wanting from us,
to release us from this planet so that
we could experience the universe with him.
We came to see,
and now I've found many affirmations of
the fact that God's interest is not in
us being perfect.
There really is no Hebrew word for that
concept.
And when I have rendered it in the
past,
it is by just superficially reporting what
the
lexicons and Hebrew English dictionaries
say,
but what they say was only to echo
religious terminology and religious texts.
The word tamym Dowdsn't mean perfect.
It's based on tamam, the verb,
and it means to complete the job,
to finish what one starts,
to fulfill what needs to be accomplished.
And Dowd did those things.
And because he did those things,
he is tamym.
And therefore, he was qualified.
For the very reason he got back up
and got going again.
So there is a happily ever after ending
to this story.
But for the story to be real,
it has some gut-wrenching details.
And this is all part of them.
So now after we have learned that Dowd
was sleeping during the day,
abusing alcohol,
turned into a voyeur at night,
determined that a woman that he thought
was pretty belonged to another man and
abducted her anyway,
and then immediately had sex with her,
which happens to be the textbook
definition of rape.
The fact that he then tried to cover
it up and was gluttonous in the process.
The fact that he had a man assassinated
and then turned his general into a
co-conspirator in murder.
the level of depravity that was in the
letter that he wrote to Yow'ab to get
the light of Yah extinguished.
That was the man's name, 'Uwryah.
It's, quite frankly, it's debilitating.
So here's how the story continues.
We're in the twenty-sixth statement of the
eleventh chapter of Second Samuel,
means to listen to God.
The wife of 'Uwryah
heard that her Ba'al, her husband,
the Light of Yah, perished.
She wept, mourning over her Ba'al,
Lord and Master.
It never suggests that she knows that he
was murdered or that Dowd was the one
who committed the crime.
When the 'ebel, the ceremonial,
morning ritual had passed.
Then Dowd sent out and he, 'asaph,
gathered her in as if harvesting her to
his house.
She became his woman.
She had a child around him, a son.
But from the perspective of Yahowah,
Dowd,
remember I told you to recall this word
as a verb, raa'?
But from the perspective of Yahowah, Dowd,
raa', had consistently been wrong.
He had habitually been distressing and
harmful,
even evil in the things he had said
and done.
Second Samuel, eleven, twenty-seven.
So if you think that I'm overstepping my
bounds and criticizing our king,
you can never be wrong if your conclusions
match those of Yahowah.
When it comes to criticizing our
compatriot, the king,
even now as I recognize him as my
adoptive son,
I'm of course hesitant and I'm
uncomfortable,
particularly recognizing all that he
achieved on the positive side of the
ledger.
But at least I know that I'm in
good company and correctly processing the
evidence when Yahowah concurs.
Moreover,
I'm rather certain that what I've already
said to his face and will say is
far beyond what I've shared here.
Just as Dowd told Yow'ab that there would
be no perception of raa', wrongdoing,
Yahowah said otherwise,
that the whole rotten affair had been
raa', despicable from the outset.
And let's be clear, Bathsheba,
she is no Ammah.
So,
guess who were no longer on speaking
terms?
Yep,
Yahowah delivered his condemnation of his
son via an intermediary.
When Yahowah sent Nathan,
Nathan means gift, to Dowd,
which means beloved.
He came to him and he said to
him,
There were two individuals in a particular
city, one rich and powerful,
and the other one was poor.
This is the beginning of second Samuel,
the first verse.
The exceedingly wealthy one had
excessively large flocks of sheep,
as well as herds of cattle.
The poor person had nothing except one
little lamb, an insignificant ewe,
which he had acquired,
and he sustained and nurtured her life.
She grew up with him,
becoming tremendously valuable to him,
even appreciated by his children.
When together, a morsel of his food,
just crumbs and scraps of his, she ate.
She even drank from his cup.
She would lie down and rest in his
arms.
She became like a daughter to him.
A visitor who was traveling came to the
rich and powerful man,
but he showed no compassion and was
unwilling to take one of the lambs in
his flock or cattle from his herd to
do something for the traveler who had come
to him.
Instead,
he grasped hold of and took the ewe
of the poor person and prepared it for
the man who had come to him.
I'll note to self and to all who
are listening,
don't ever try to match wits with Yah.
There was no wiggling out of this.
But what's amazing to me is the empathy
Yahowah expressed and the extent that he
went to to teach his wayward son a
lesson, one that he might understand,
although at this point he didn't.
As for Nathan,
he is announcing the gift of Dowd,
the beloved son,
given in Yeshayah nine to redeem mankind's
fractured relationship with God.
So by that time, this had been resolved.
It just wouldn't be resolved for many
years after this transpired.
Dowd would be the lamb
And the one sharing this with you is
the bull.
Working together and collaboratively with
Yahowah, once resolving this mess,
we foster reconciliation during the Miqra'ey
of Pesach and then on Taruw'ah.
The emotional portrayal of the lone lamb,
one acquired when it was very young.
then nurtured and sustained,
becoming a beloved child,
cradled in the arms of the one who
adored it.
In the presence of a grateful family,
who was then taken away and prepared to
meet the needs of a newly arrived guest,
of course,
is a portrait of Dowd's eventual
fulfillment of Passover.
When the man, when he, I should say,
man's up,
accepts his place and shows some
compassion for others,
he will be that lamb.
And then for those who prefer hindsight to
foresight,
the emblematic of the validation of the
covenant narrative with Yitschaq and
Abraham.
Remember they ascended?
Mowryah to celebrate Passover right here on
the same place on Mowryah,
albeit one thousand years earlier at the
time when Yahowah promised that he would
provide the lamb.
Well, that was enduring and brilliant.
I'm bewildered that Dowd was so slow on
the uptake.
But then again,
I suppose that his mindset was different
at the moment and
We benefit from knowing how the entire
story plays out over the next three
millennia,
which he did not process at this time.
So this was the second occasion in so
many words that we have been told that
Dowd had a wicked temper.
It is part and parcel to being impulsive.
So it's temper.
It was inflamed.
And his rage was aroused tremendously
against the man.
Then he said to Nathan, as Yahowah lives,
surely the son who did this deserves to
die.
And in addition,
he must restore the lamb and repay
fourfold his as recompense because he did
this thing.
And also because he had no compassion.
Then Nathan said to Dowd you are that
man.
At the moment you could have heard a
snowflake fall.
The silence between these men and their
God would have been deafening.
And of course,
we would do well to consider the
expressions on the faces and thoughts now
whirling in the minds of the gift and
of the beloved.
Frankly,
while Nathan's lips were moving and words
were spilling out of his mouth,
I Dowd Dowd processed any more than the
first and last statement of what follows.
Thus,
says Yahowah, the God of Yisrael.
I anointed you, Mashyach,
to be king over Yisrael.
I rescued and delivered you from the hand
of Sha'uwl.
I gave to you the house of your
Adon, your Lord,
and your Lord's women into your lap.
And I gave you the house of Yisrael
and that of Yahuwdah.
And if this were too little,
this were insufficient for you,
I would have added to it,
giving you the like of it.
And so much more.
Forty eight years prior to this stern
admonishment.
Yahowah had not only anointed Dowd as the
Messiah and appointed him the future king
of Israel.
He had given his beloved his spirit.
God had chosen a young lamb and he
nurtured and raised him as his son.
He is entrusting his people to him.
The fight for validation and supremacy
between the Benjamite Sha'uwl and the Yahuwd
Dowd is among the most unheralded of all
prophetic portrayals.
It is analogous to the Benjamite,
of course, by the same name,
the one who was also demon-possessed and
who not only wanted Dowd to dead and
buried,
but was willing to misappropriate the
Towrah.
to achieve his deadly schemes.
This is the battle of the ages that
Yahowah is discussing between man's most
popular religion and the relationship
Yahowah sought to achieve through his son.
And God has taken sides against
Christianity and in support of the
covenant.
Yahowah is just not in the business of
accommodating men.
In the dissertation upon the exit from
Eden,
he made it unambiguously clear that we
would have to work to survive.
But occasionally,
God will make an exception,
at least to the extent that he will
augment what his covenant children could
achieve independently.
He will do this
so that we have the time and resources
to pursue the family business.
So Dowd was the supreme beneficiary of
this arrangement, the ultimate exemplar.
Yahowah is affirming that he received a
palatial home filled with women to keep
him company.
But he was also afforded his father's most
valued treasure, Yisrael and Yahuwdah.
Having tried it himself and been so
soundly rejected,
God was keenly aware that there is no
more difficult job than representing him
and speaking for him.
Moshe was eminently qualified and
marvelously supported,
but he didn't make it through the first
year before he was, well,
that he snapped and he begged Yahowah to
relieve him from duty.
Yahowah met the challenge by providing
additional support and supplies.
Although there were occasional missteps,
Dowd managed to stay on course for
forty-eight years before he opted out.
In appreciation of what his son had and
would achieve,
God is not only on record saying that
there was no limit on what he was
willing to provide,
even if it was nothing more than
additional houses and women.
or as valuable as his anointing,
protection of people.
But there is a right and a wrong
way to go about this potential equation.
Our Father isn't going to opt in when
we opt out,
nor is he going to lavish gifts upon
us when we have no appreciation for their
value, nor value their relationships.
that makes all of this possible.
We are at liberty to accept or reject
the word of God.
Most despise Yahowah's testimony because of
course it is contrary to their religious
beliefs.
But that is not what is happening here
because Dowd was not being religious.
He isn't showing contempt for the Towrah
instructions because they are in conflict
with his plans to impose his authority
through religion,
as was the case with Paul,
Akiba and Muhammad, priests,
rabbis and imams.
He knew what God said.
He just chose to reject his Towrah guidance
for the fleeting satisfaction of wine and
women.
God took it personally.
as he should.
Why, he asks,
and on whose account have you despised
showing such contempt for the word of
Yahowah, such that you did such raw evil,
wickedly troubling,
and horribly wrong in his sight?
You struck down the 'Uwryah,
the light of Yah, the Chity,
the formidable one,
with the desolating sword,
and his wife you have taken to be
your woman.
You intentionally slaughtered him with the
swords of the sons of 'Amown,
the son of the people.
It's a choice that we're all asked to
make.
God's way or man's?
Relationship or religion?
It is the option offered long ago with
the ''ets da'ath of Towb and ra.
Is it not?
This referendum is presented today
in the word of Yahowah,
also known as the Towrah.
In the opening chapter of the Towrah,
God revealed that Dowd would be the Gadowl
Ma'or, the greater luminary.
He is, as we shall soon be reminded,
equated to the sun.
And so by slaying 'Uwryah,
Dowd extinguished the light of God on
earth.
The Choreb, this desolated sword,
is a double entendre because it was upon
the sharp,
craggy summit of Mount Choreb that Moshe
and the Israelites were first introduced
to the Owr, the light of Yahowah.
And this is when the children of Yisra'el
were especially raw, malcontent,
and malevolent in his sight.
Always the ultimate weaver of words.
With this rue originating over a woman,
Yahowah would resolve it likewise.
While Dowd had killed a man for her,
God would save his son and the world
through her.
It's the ultimate contrast between the
Amom, the sum of the people.
and the Towrah teaching of Yahowah on behalf
of the beryth, the covenant,
through the Mow'edym, restoring witness.
The choice between these approaches is
life and death.
Dowd, of course, he knew better,
but he had chosen poorly.
There would be a consequence.
God cannot be capricious.
even with his great love and favoritism
for his chosen one, his anointed, his son.
There must be some adherence to the rules
that he had established.
And so we read, Therefore, now,
the sword shall never be removed from your
household.
Never throughout time as an 'ed,
an everlasting witness as a result,
because you have shown great contempt for
me.
Thinking so little of me that you have
taken the wife of 'UwrYah,
the light of y'all,
the Chity formidable one to be your
woman.
God is saying that your perception of him
was reduced to having sex with a married
woman.
That's how much you valued me, God said.
You have shown great contempt for me.
My friends,
this condition would endure three
millennia without respite.
It's ongoing even now.
It's about to get much worse.
And it will not be resolved until Taruw'ah,
when the bull and the goat intervene on
Mowryah,
and before the surviving remnant of
Yisra'el.
That is the lesson of the 'Ed,
the eternal testimony,
delivered by this restoring witness.
All Yisra'el would become dead.
They still are.
Yisra'elites and Jews think so little of
Yahowah,
they've erased his name and replaced his
dabarym words with their own.
They continue to fight a losing battle
with diminishing returns for their very
survival.
rather than thriving,
they have and they will continue to die
with more over the next seven years than
ever before.
The immediate and specific fulfillment of
the following pronouncement was by way of
Dowd's son, Absalom,
who led a devastating coup against his
father,
culminating with the rape of the king's
concubines.
But to some extent,
it is also prophetic of what Sha'uwl Paul
would do by replacing Dowd with his
counterfeit Jesus so as to blot out the
son.
This is what Yahowah says.
Pay attention.
I will raise up against you a ra'a',
a miserable, malcontent,
and malignant shepherd out of your
household.
And I will have your women and wives
taken away before your eyes and give them
to your foul-mouthed and maniacal fellow
countrymen.
Then he will lie down with your wives
and women in ayin, the sight, the eyes,
and perceptions of this Shemesh sun.
Throughout the Towrah,
the Naby' and Mizmowr Dowd is equated to
the sun,
while his herald is the moon reflecting
his light.
But at this moment,
with the assassination of 'Uwryah,
the light of Yah,
Yahowah's greatest luminary had quenched
his energy.
From the beginning,
the king tried to hide his complicity,
covering over his crimes,
but they became so monumental that he
wasn't fooling anyone but himself.
God, however, is a beacon of light.
Even in the darkest hours,
he deals his cards face up in broad
daylight.
And in so doing,
he is acknowledging that his son
represents the son.
This will be second Samuel, twelve,
twelve.
This is because you did this while hiding,
veiled in sly secrecy.
However,
I will act carrying out this message in
front of all Israel and before the sun.
When I read that,
I knew that we were doing what we
needed to do.
God exposed his response and his intent
boldly for all to see.
And in so doing,
We are wise to follow his example.
And we are.
God had responded, had God responded,
I should say, any other way,
he would have also destroyed his
credibility.
You see,
he established the parameters of the
covenant in his Towrah.
and now he himself must adhere to them.
He cannot remain trustworthy and reliable
if he alters the rules,
underline life as we are living it.
And so over the remaining fourteen years
of his first three lives,
Dowd would face the consequences of what
he had done further.
Well,
he was right to admit that he had
Chata'ah incurred the resulting guilt for
having missed the way confession did not
absolve him,
nor will it anyone say I'm sorry after
robbing a bank and killing the guard.
Well,
that's only going to serve to hasten and
assure your conviction.
So Dowd said to Nathan, I have chata'ah.
I have missed the way, gone astray,
and incurred the guilt and resulting loss
for having been offensive against Yahowah.
Shamuw'el two, twelve, thirteen in part.
Well, it was an admission of guilt.
It wasn't an apology.
It didn't resolve the problem.
Good men were dead,
and an overly indulgent and irresponsible
man had stolen another man's wife when he
had already paid, well,
he had already collected, I should say,
a different one for breakfast, lunch,
and dinner seven days a week.
Worse, he had not only embarrassed Yahowah,
who had
placed so much trust in him.
He had put God in a untenable position.
You see, without Dowd, the sun,
it doesn't shine.
And all life ends on this planet.
And right now,
the sun was being eclipsed by a very
dark and foreboding cloud.
Without resolution, yeah, well, would...
wouldn't be able to direct or trust his
son with the fulfillment of Pesach and
Matsah, resulting in Bikuwrym.
Should the spring Mow'edym not be fulfilled
appropriately and on schedule, well,
all of the remaining would go unanswered,
wouldn't they?
There would be no Shabuw'ah harvest.
There would be no Taruw'ah,
no Kipurym homecoming,
and no restoration of the planet and
return to Eden.
The entire human experience would be over.
Fortunately, Yahowah arranged a solution.
It began with a woman who would resolve
the problem a woman had caused.
This is the resounding and overriding
message of the last word picture,
the final mashal.
And really it resonates throughout most
all of the Mashal Proverbs.
And through the Mizmowr and the Naby',
the reputation of the greater luminary
would be restored by the lesser luminary
with the tree of knowledge pointing the
way back to the tree of lives.
And of a husband and wife,
a mother and father working
collaboratively to save their adopted son.
The message Yahowah delivered through
Nathan was a preemptive strike against
Sha'uwl's sinister religious ploy.
Dowd had buried himself,
but his soul would never die.
And to assure that his and ours would
live,
Yahowah would arrange for his son to
fulfill a bar Passover.
offering his Basar body as the beloved
lamb of this story.
The relationship would be reconciled.
It reads, then Nathan replied to Dowd,
nevertheless,
Yahowah Abar will one day pass over your
Chata guilt through your purifying
offering.
You will never die.
laden with portent.
Now,
there are a couple of lessons in
particular that I want to reinforce.
First,
while Dowd had demonstrated that he was
not a perfect lamb by religious standards,
it now becomes blatantly obvious that
Yahowah defines tamym differently.
You see, as we know,
when God is speaking of the fulfillment of
Pesach here,
clearly stating that he's going to fulfill
Pesach by interjecting a bar.
That's its verbal root,
and it's the answer to death.
tamym,
the word carelessly rendered perfect,
has an actionable root too.
Just like a bar is the actionable root
of Pesach, it is tamym,
and it speaks of finishing,
not of being flawless.
of completing the mission rather than
standing idly by and not occurring guilt.
Therefore,
Dowd became the tamym lamb when he
re-engaged after re-establishing his
relationship with Yahowah and earning
Yahowah's trust.
completing his calling by fulfilling Chag
Matsah.
When his Basar body was sacrificed as the
lamb,
he opened the door to eternal life for
himself in addition to the rest of us.
And then on Matsah,
when his nepesh soul carried our guilt
into Sheowl to make us innocent before God,
he was also carrying and offloading his
own.
The resolution that Yahowah had established
in the Towrah applied to the Bikuwr,
the firstborn,
as well as to other Bikuwrym,
firstborn children.
God didn't change the rule.
He applied them.
And with Dowd,
Yahowah enabled the benefits.
It is an amazing story.
I do want to end our conversation
program here, largely because, well,
I have ended my analysis of this in
the present document.
And so I had thought that I had
sent a more complete file for this
program.
So I just must admit that I failed
to do so.
And I am, oh, I'm a hundred,
maybe even fifty pages beyond this in my
translations and commentary.
but not on the file that I sent
for these translations.
And there's so much more that I want
to share with you that we'll wait until
tomorrow and I'll send a more complete
file and we'll move on from here as
we consider all of the implications
associated with this.
There is a great deal to consider and
learn.
Some of the most compelling insights ever
are being shared through this terrible
event.
So I thank you for listening.
I'll be with you tomorrow.